- [Instructor] During chunk-based processing,
business logic can be inserted between
when items are read and when the items are written.
To do this logic, Spring Batch provides
the ItemProcessor interface.
The ItemProcessor interface is implemented
to introduce custom business logic that occurs
between the ItemReader and ItemWriter.
This allows developers to address
custom batch processing logic within chunk-based processing.
Typical use cases for the ItemProcessor include
transformation, validation, and filtering of the items
flowing through chunk-based processing.
Below you will see the contract
for the ItemProcessor interface,
which contains a single process method
that must be implemented.
It is important to note the type arguments.
These represent the input and output of the processor.
In the case of a transformation,
the type accepted as input may differ from the type
accepted as output,
requiring the job to account for this change in type.
In some cases, you may need to include
multiple processors within a chunk-based step.
To support this, Spring Batch allows processors
to be chained using a composite ItemProcessor.
It is important to reiterate that an ItemProcessor
is not a required component within a chunk-based step.
If you are simply moving data from one source to another,
it may not be necessary,
but most jobs will require some sort of processing.
I've mentioned that filtering and validation
were a typical use case for an ItemProcessor.
Let's see an example of that chunk-based
processing logic in action.
In this example, I'm combining filtering and validation
in one example because the process is very similar.
The ItemReader will ingest the data one item at a time
passing it to the processor,
which decides whether to filter the item
or determines if it is valid.
In the case of filtering,
we only pass items meeting the filter criteria
to the ItemWriter.
The same occurs for validation,
although we could fail the job when validating.
Valid items are then passed to the ItemWriter
to be written to a data source.
Another use case for an ItemProcessor is transformation.
You will notice that I've generically typed the components
within our chunk-based step,
indicating the type of input or output expected.
Once again, the ItemReader will ingest the data,
one item at a time, passing it to the processor
which then transforms our items
from the type ItemA to ItemB.
Our writer is generically typed for ItemB
and after the transformation,
it writes the transformed item to the data store.
We'll see how to implement this processing logic
in the upcoming lessons,
along with an example of the composite ItemWriter.